README.md, before:

###  SkiROS2 pyrobosim Library

A warm welcome to the SkiROS2 setup for the [problems of the deliberation group ROSCon24 workshop](https://github.com/ros-wg-delib/roscon24-workshop). This repository contains skills and knowledge representation for the started problem. Among the skills are wrapper skills for `pyrobosim` actions as well as skeletons to solve the problems and their solutions.

**SkiROS2** is a platform to create complex robot behaviors by composing _skills_ - modular software blocks - into [behavior trees](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Behavior_tree_(artificial_intelligence,_robotics_and_control)).

Robots coordinated with SkiROS can be used in partially structured environments, where the robot has a good initial understanding of the environment, but it is also expected to find discrepancies, fail using initial plans and react accordingly.

SkiROS offers the following features:

* A **framework** to organize the **robot behaviors** within **modular skill libraries**
* Scalable skill model with **pre-, hold- and post-conditions**
* A **reactive execution engine** based on **Behavior trees**
* A **world model** as a **semantic database** to manage environmental knowledge
* **Reasoning capabilities** and **automatic inference** of skill parameters
* An integration point for **PDDL task planning**
* **Automatic generation of planning domains** based on the skills and entities in the world model
* **ROS**, **RViz** and **tf integration**
* **Python APIs** for skill handling, the world model and task planning

<img width="700" alt="A figure of the SkiROS2 architecture" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/RVMI/skiros2/ros2/skiros2/doc/SkiROS2-Architecture.svg">

## Getting Started with SkiROS2 as a Whole

* **A full introduction and the tutorials are located in the [SkiROS2 wiki](https://github.com/RVMI/skiros2/wiki)**
* Watch a video from the [video section below](#Videos)
* Additionally, the [SkiROS2 paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.17030) provides an overview and background information

### Videos
We have video introductions to the platform with varying lengths. Feel free to choose depending on your time budget. The longer ones always include the content of the short ones.
| 1min Pitch  | 5min Short Introduction  | 20min ROSCon 2023  |
|---|---|---|
| <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0ejGWLx94a8"><img width="300" alt="Screenshot of the 1 minute introduction" src="https://github.com/RVMI/skiros2/blob/ros2/skiros2/res/screenshot_1min.png?raw=true"></a>  | <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jy-LlNn3e58"><img width="300" alt="Screenshot of the 5 minute introduction" src="https://github.com/RVMI/skiros2/blob/ros2/skiros2/res/screenshot_5min.png?raw=true"></a>  | <a href="https://vimeo.com/879001825/2a0e9d5412"><img width="300" alt="Screenshot of the ROSCon 2023 talk" src="https://github.com/RVMI/skiros2/blob/ros2/skiros2/res/screenshot_roscon.png?raw=true"></a>  |
| [1min URL](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0ejGWLx94a8)  | [5min URL](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jy-LlNn3e58)  | [ROSCon Talk URL](https://vimeo.com/879001825/2a0e9d5412)  |

## How to get Started with the pyrobosim Problems

> For the **ROSCon24 workshop**, this repository is integrated into a docker container that the workshop organizers have prepared.  
> You can follow the [setup instructions in the workshop repository](https://github.com/ros-wg-delib/roscon24-workshop/?tab=readme-ov-file#setup). Inside this docker container, you can find the SkiROS2 integration in `/delib_ws/src/technologies/SkiROS2` 

In this container you can launch SkiROS2 together with pyrobosim with this command:
```sh
ros2 launch skiros2_pyrobosim_lib main.launch.py problem_number:=1
```

This brings up the SkiROS2 interface as well as the pyrobosim world. As a first thing, it is a good browse through the available skills and the world model. You can do this with the SkiROS2 interface or by looking at the files in the `skiros2_pyrobosim_lib` package.

![pyrobosim world 1](docs/pyrobosim_world_1.png)

### View Solutions

We include the solutions to all problems in this repository. We assume that you have an interest to solve the problems yourself, but if you're stuck and want to see the robot move, you can load the solution of a given problem with:
```sh
ros2 launch skiros2_pyrobosim_lib main.launch.py load_only_solutions:=True problem_number:=1
```

This loads the set of solution skills that are in [skiros2_pyrobosim_lib/solutions.py](skiros2_pyrobosim_lib/solutions.py).




## Repository Structure

Below you'll find the structure of this repository.  
You can also get it directly from [github.com/matthias-mayr/skiros2_pyrobosim_lib](https://github.com/matthias-mayr/skiros2_pyrobosim_lib)

```
├── README.md  
├── docs ------------------ ### The documents guiding you through 
│   ├── 0_Start.md                      --> Introduction
│   ├── 1_Problem_1_Object_Fetch.md     --> Instructions for Problem 1
│   ├── 2_Problem_2_Waste_Disposal.md
│   ├── 3_Problem_3_Table_Setting.md
│   ├── 4_Problem_4_Table_Waste_Charge.md
│   └── Planning.md                     --> Instructions for planning with SkiROS2
├── launch ---------------- ### Launch file
│   └── main.launch.py                  --> Launch file for SkiROS2 in the workshop
├── owl ------------------- ### Knowledge: scenes and ontology
│   ├── p1_scene.turtle                 --> Scene for problem 1
│   ├── ...
│   └── robi_robot_description.owl      --> Ontology with classes & relations
├── planning -------------- ### PDDL Planning Files
│   ├── problem1.pddl
│   ├── ...
│   ├── skiros.pddl         
│   ├── solutions
│   │   ├── problem1.pddl
│   │   ...
│   │   └── problem4.pddl
│   └── test.pddl
├── scripts ----------------------- ### Helper scripts
│   ├── update_battery_percentage.py    --> Script to update the world model
│   └── yaml_world_to_turtle.py         --> Converts pyrobosim world.yaml to scene.turtle 
└── skiros2_pyrobosim_lib --------- ### All our skills
    ├── problem_1_fetch_item.py         --> Skills for problem 1
    ├── problem_2_waste_and_doors.py    
    ├── problem_3_table_setting.py
    ├── problem_4_charge.py
    ├── pyrobosim_compound_skills.py    --> Skills wrapping pyrobosim primitives
    ├── pyrobosim_primitive_skills.py   --> Skills for interfacing with pyrobosim 
    ├── solutions.py                    --> Don't look here until you're done:-)
    ├── task_planning.py                --> Extra skills to demonstrate task planning
    ├── utils                           --> Utility skills
    │   └── ...
    └── xtra_advanced_skills.py         --> Extra skills to show some features
```

## Let's get Started

Follow this link or just go in the docs folder [docs/0_Start.md](docs/0_Start.md) or view it online [on the Github repo](https://github.com/matthias-mayr/skiros2_pyrobosim_lib/tree/main/docs/0_Start.md) if you are reading this file locally.

Commit message:

Docs: Adds note about repo updates for workshop

README.md, after:

###  SkiROS2 pyrobosim Library

A warm welcome to the SkiROS2 setup for the [problems of the deliberation group ROSCon24 workshop](https://github.com/ros-wg-delib/roscon24-workshop). This repository contains skills and knowledge representation for the started problem. Among the skills are wrapper skills for `pyrobosim` actions as well as skeletons to solve the problems and their solutions.

**SkiROS2** is a platform to create complex robot behaviors by composing _skills_ - modular software blocks - into [behavior trees](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Behavior_tree_(artificial_intelligence,_robotics_and_control)).

Robots coordinated with SkiROS can be used in partially structured environments, where the robot has a good initial understanding of the environment, but it is also expected to find discrepancies, fail using initial plans and react accordingly.

SkiROS offers the following features:

* A **framework** to organize the **robot behaviors** within **modular skill libraries**
* Scalable skill model with **pre-, hold- and post-conditions**
* A **reactive execution engine** based on **Behavior trees**
* A **world model** as a **semantic database** to manage environmental knowledge
* **Reasoning capabilities** and **automatic inference** of skill parameters
* An integration point for **PDDL task planning**
* **Automatic generation of planning domains** based on the skills and entities in the world model
* **ROS**, **RViz** and **tf integration**
* **Python APIs** for skill handling, the world model and task planning

<img width="700" alt="A figure of the SkiROS2 architecture" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/RVMI/skiros2/ros2/skiros2/doc/SkiROS2-Architecture.svg">

## Getting Started with SkiROS2 as a Whole

* **A full introduction and the tutorials are located in the [SkiROS2 wiki](https://github.com/RVMI/skiros2/wiki)**
* Watch a video from the [video section below](#Videos)
* Additionally, the [SkiROS2 paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.17030) provides an overview and background information

### Videos
We have video introductions to the platform with varying lengths. Feel free to choose depending on your time budget. The longer ones always include the content of the short ones.
| 1min Pitch  | 5min Short Introduction  | 20min ROSCon 2023  |
|---|---|---|
| <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0ejGWLx94a8"><img width="300" alt="Screenshot of the 1 minute introduction" src="https://github.com/RVMI/skiros2/blob/ros2/skiros2/res/screenshot_1min.png?raw=true"></a>  | <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jy-LlNn3e58"><img width="300" alt="Screenshot of the 5 minute introduction" src="https://github.com/RVMI/skiros2/blob/ros2/skiros2/res/screenshot_5min.png?raw=true"></a>  | <a href="https://vimeo.com/879001825/2a0e9d5412"><img width="300" alt="Screenshot of the ROSCon 2023 talk" src="https://github.com/RVMI/skiros2/blob/ros2/skiros2/res/screenshot_roscon.png?raw=true"></a>  |
| [1min URL](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0ejGWLx94a8)  | [5min URL](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jy-LlNn3e58)  | [ROSCon Talk URL](https://vimeo.com/879001825/2a0e9d5412)  |

## How to get Started with the pyrobosim Problems

> **Note 1**: For the **ROSCon24 workshop**, this repository is integrated into a docker container that the workshop organizers have prepared.  
> You can follow the [setup instructions in the workshop repository](https://github.com/ros-wg-delib/roscon24-workshop/?tab=readme-ov-file#setup). Inside this docker container, you can find the SkiROS2 integration in `/delib_ws/src/technologies/SkiROS2`  

> **Note 2:** If you set up the container some days before the workshop, chances are we updated this repository. You can update this repository with the following command executed in your `roscon24-workshop` repo clone:  
> `git submodule update --init`


In this container you can launch SkiROS2 together with pyrobosim with this command:
```sh
ros2 launch skiros2_pyrobosim_lib main.launch.py problem_number:=1
```

This brings up the SkiROS2 interface as well as the pyrobosim world. As a first thing, it is a good browse through the available skills and the world model. You can do this with the SkiROS2 interface or by looking at the files in the `skiros2_pyrobosim_lib` package.

![pyrobosim world 1](docs/pyrobosim_world_1.png)

### View Solutions

We include the solutions to all problems in this repository. We assume that you have an interest to solve the problems yourself, but if you're stuck and want to see the robot move, you can load the solution of a given problem with:
```sh
ros2 launch skiros2_pyrobosim_lib main.launch.py load_only_solutions:=True problem_number:=1
```

This loads the set of solution skills that are in [skiros2_pyrobosim_lib/solutions.py](skiros2_pyrobosim_lib/solutions.py).




## Repository Structure

Below you'll find the structure of this repository.  
You can also get it directly from [github.com/matthias-mayr/skiros2_pyrobosim_lib](https://github.com/matthias-mayr/skiros2_pyrobosim_lib)

```
├── README.md  
├── docs ------------------ ### The documents guiding you through 
│   ├── 0_Start.md                      --> Introduction
│   ├── 1_Problem_1_Object_Fetch.md     --> Instructions for Problem 1
│   ├── 2_Problem_2_Waste_Disposal.md
│   ├── 3_Problem_3_Table_Setting.md
│   ├── 4_Problem_4_Table_Waste_Charge.md
│   └── Planning.md                     --> Instructions for planning with SkiROS2
├── launch ---------------- ### Launch file
│   └── main.launch.py                  --> Launch file for SkiROS2 in the workshop
├── owl ------------------- ### Knowledge: scenes and ontology
│   ├── p1_scene.turtle                 --> Scene for problem 1
│   ├── ...
│   └── robi_robot_description.owl      --> Ontology with classes & relations
├── planning -------------- ### PDDL Planning Files
│   ├── problem1.pddl
│   ├── ...
│   ├── skiros.pddl         
│   ├── solutions
│   │   ├── problem1.pddl
│   │   ...
│   │   └── problem4.pddl
│   └── test.pddl
├── scripts ----------------------- ### Helper scripts
│   ├── update_battery_percentage.py    --> Script to update the world model
│   └── yaml_world_to_turtle.py         --> Converts pyrobosim world.yaml to scene.turtle 
└── skiros2_pyrobosim_lib --------- ### All our skills
    ├── problem_1_fetch_item.py         --> Skills for problem 1
    ├── problem_2_waste_and_doors.py    
    ├── problem_3_table_setting.py
    ├── problem_4_charge.py
    ├── pyrobosim_compound_skills.py    --> Skills wrapping pyrobosim primitives
    ├── pyrobosim_primitive_skills.py   --> Skills for interfacing with pyrobosim 
    ├── solutions.py                    --> Don't look here until you're done:-)
    ├── task_planning.py                --> Extra skills to demonstrate task planning
    ├── utils                           --> Utility skills
    │   └── ...
    └── xtra_advanced_skills.py         --> Extra skills to show some features
```

## Let's get Started

Follow this link or just go in the docs folder [docs/0_Start.md](docs/0_Start.md) or view it online [on the Github repo](https://github.com/matthias-mayr/skiros2_pyrobosim_lib/tree/main/docs/0_Start.md) if you are reading this file locally.
